Documentation for semantic_text auto pre-filtering (#139749)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text-reference.md

## Automatic pre-filtering for dense vector embeddings [auto-prefiltering]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.3
serverless: ga
```

Querying `semantic_text` fields that have dense vector embeddings automatically applies
filters found in the Query DSL tree or [ES|QL](/reference/query-languages/esql.md) query
as pre-filters in order to ensure the requested number of results is returned.

In the following example we are using a `match` query against a `semantic_text` field
in order to find the 10 most relevant documents that match the query "quick drying t-shirts".
However, we are only interested in green t-shirts, so we add a filter query to exclude other colors.

In Query DSL we would express this query as follows:

```console
POST my-index/_search
{
  "size" : 10,
  "query" : {
    "bool" : {
      "must" : {
        "match": {
          "dense_semantic_text_field": {
            "query": "quick drying t-shirts"
          }
        }
      },
      "filter" : {
        "term" : {
          "color": {
            "value": "green"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
% TEST[skip:Requires {{infer}} endpoint]

> The `term` query will be applied as a pre-filter, meaning that when the *knn* search executes on

Author: I'm making the assumption that people reading this understand that a `match` query against a dense `semantic_text` field is doing `knn` search under the hood. I wonder if we need to add more explanation here or not.

Reviewer: I think so. Maybe we don't need to get technical - we can just say that in case it's needed, it will be applied as a pre-filter so we keep the expected number of results back.

* `semantic_text` fields do not support [Cross-Cluster Search (CCS)](docs-content://explore-analyze/cross-cluster-search.md) when [`ccs_minimize_roundtrips`](docs-content://explore-analyze/cross-cluster-search.md#ccs-network-delays) is set to `false`.
* `semantic_text` fields do not support [Cross-Cluster Search (CCS)](docs-content://explore-analyze/cross-cluster-search.md) in [ES|QL](/reference/query-languages/esql.md).
* `semantic_text` fields do not support [Cross-Cluster Replication (CCR)](docs-content://deploy-manage/tools/cross-cluster-replication.md).
* automatic pre-filtering in Query DSL does not apply on [Nested queries](/reference/query-languages/query-dsl/query-dsl-nested-query.md). Such queries will be applied as post-filters.

> * automatic pre-filtering in ES|QL does not apply on filters that are not translatable to Lucene. Such filters will be applied as post-filters.

Reviewer: Tricky indeed. I think we could add something like:
```suggestion
* automatic pre-filtering in ES|QL does not apply on filters that use functions (like `WHERE TO_LOWER(my_field) == 'a'`). These filters will be applied as post-filters.
```

However, this is something we need to do. I've opened https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/issues/139754 to track this.
